and here we go all right Nick this is
one of the things that scares people
more than anything is the idea that
we're creating something or someone's
gonna create something it's gonna be
smarter than us it's gonna replace us is
that something we should really be
concerned about I presume you're afraid
to babies I'm referring to artificial
intelligence yes well it's the the big
fear and the big hope I think both at
the same time yeah how is it the big
hope well there are a lot of things
wrong with the world that is not pull
this up to your face all the problems we
have most of them could be solved if we
were smarter or if we had somebody on
our side who were a lot smarter with
better technology and so forth also I
think if we want to imagine some really
grand future where humanity or our
descendants when they go out and
colonize the universe I think that's
likely to happen if it's gonna happen at
all after we have super intelligence
that then develops the technology to
make that possible
the real question is whether or not we
would be able to harness this
intelligence or whether it would
dominate yeah that certainly is one
question not the only you could imagine
that we harness it but then use it for
bad purposes as we have a lot of other
technologies through history yes I think
there are really two challenges we need
to meet one one is to make sure we can
align it with human values and then make
sure that we together do something
better with it than fighting worse or
oppressing one another I think well what
I'm worried about more than any things
that human beings are going to become
obsolete that we're going to invent
something that's the next stage of
evolution I'm really concerned with that
I'm really concerned with if we look
back on ancient hominids Australia
Pittacus just think of some primitive
ancestor of man we don't want to go back
to that like that that's a terrible way
to live
I'm worried that what we're creating is
the next thing I think we don't
necessarily want at least I wouldn't be
totally thrilled with with the future
where humanity as it is now was was the
last and final word the ultimate version
beyond right I think there's a lot of
room for improvement sure but not
anything that is different is an
improvement right so so the key would be
I think to find some path forward where
the best in us can continue to exist and
develop to even greater levels and maybe
at the end of that path it looks nothing
like we do now maybe it's not two legged
armed creatures running around with
three pounds of thinking matter right it
might be something quite different but
as long as it what we value is is
present there and ideally in a much
higher degree than in the current world
then that could count as a success yeah
the idea that we're in a state of
evolution that we are just like we look
at ancient hominids that we are
eventually going to become something
more advanced or at least more
complicated than we are now but what I'm
worried is that biological life itself
has so many limitations when we look at
the evolution of Technology if you look
at Moore's Law or if you just look at
new cell phones like they just released
a new iPhone yesterday and they talked
about all these incremental increases in
the ability to take photographs and
wide-angle lenses in night mode and a
new chip that works even faster these
things there's not the word evolutions
incorrect but the innovation of
technology is so much more rapid than
anything we could ever even imagine
biologically like if we had a thing that
we'd create if we created instead of
artificial intelligence in terms of like
some something in a chip or a computer
if we created a life-form a biological
life-form
but this biological life-form was
improving radically every year like it
didn't even exist like the iPhone
existed in 2007 that's what it was
invented if we had something that was 12
years old but all the sudden was
infinitely faster and better and smarter
and wiser than it was 12 years ago the
new
version of it version x1 we would we
would circle will be hit the brakes on
this thing man how how many more
generations before this thing's way
smarter than us
how many more generations before this
thing thinks that human beings are
obsolete yeah it's coming coming at us
but some people think oh it's slowing
down who thinks it's slowing down well
don't I have it like Tyler Cowen and
you're gonna Peter Thiel's sometimes
goes on about the pace of innovation and
not really being what it needs to be
mm-hmm
I mean maybe it was faster in like 1890s
or but but still compared to almost all
of human history it seems like a period
of unprecedented rapid progress right
now
unprecedented I'd say so yeah I mean
except for maybe a couple of decades
hundred years ago when there was a lot
of you know electricity the whole thing
yeah no I agree
I just I'm I don't think it's a concern
because it's more of a curiosity I am
concerned but more I look at it and go
well this is see it seems inevitable
that we're we're going to run into
artificial intelligence but the
questions are so open-ended we really
don't know when we don't really don't
know what form it's gonna take and we
really don't know what it's going to do
to us yeah I see it this not something
that should be avoided
neither something that we should just be
completely gone how about but more like
a kind of gate through which we will
have to pass at some point all paths
that are both possible only two really
great futures I think at some point
involve the development of greater than
human intelligence machine intelligence
and so that our focus should be on
getting our act together as much as we
can in whatever period of time we have
before that
prepare ourselves well I mean that might
involve doing some some research into
various technical questions as how you
build these systems so that we actually
understand what they are doing and they
have some you know intended impact on
the world it might also if we are
to get our act together a little bit
that I don't on the kind of global
political scene a little bit more peace
and love in the world would be good
anymore would be nice so and and then
like refraining from destroying
ourselves through some other means
before we even get a chance to try to
needle our way through this this gate
well that's certainly possible we were
certainly capable of screwing it all up
where is the current state of Technology
now in regards to artificial
intelligence and how far away do you
think we are from AGI well different
different people have different views on
that I think the the truth of the matter
is that it's very hard to have accurate
views about the timelines for these
things that that's you know or still
involve kind of beginning breakthroughs
that have to happen certainly I mean
over the last eight or ten years there
has been a lot of excitement away the
deep learning revolution things that I
mean it used to be that people thought
of a is this kind of autistic savant
really good at logic and counting and
memorizing facts but with no no
intuition and there's this deep learning
evolution and when you begin to do these
deep neural networks do you kind of
solved perception in some sense you can
have computers that can see that that
can hear and that have visual intuition
so so so that that has enabled the whole
wide suite of applications which makes
it commercially valuable which then
drives a lot of investment in it which
you know there's a so there's now quite
a lot of momentum in in machine learning
and trying to kind of stay ahead at that
it's interesting that when we think
about artificial intelligence and
whatever potential form that's going to
take if you look in films like 2001 like
how like open the door Hal you know like
we think of some thing that's
communicating to us like like a person
would and maybe is a little bit colder
and doesn't doesn't share our values and
has a more pragmatic view of life and
death and
and things when we think of intelligence
though I think intelligence in our mind
is almost inexorably connected to all
the things that make us human like
emotions and and and ambition and all
these things like the reason why we
innovate like we it's not really clear
like why we innovate because we enjoy
innovation and because we want to make
the world a better place and because we
want to fix some problems that we've
created and we want to solve some
limitations of the human body and the
environment that we live in but we sort
of assumed that intelligence that we
create will also have some motivations
well there is a fairly large class of
possible structures you could do if you
want to do anything that has any kind of
cognitive or intellectual capacity at
all a large class of those would be what
we might call agent so this would be
yeah systems that interact with the
world in pursuit of some goal and if
there are a sophisticated class of
agents they they can plan ahead the
sequence of actions like more primitive
agents might just have reflexes but but
the sophisticated aidan might have a
model of the world where it can kind of
think ahead before it starts doing stuff
it can think what what would I need to
do in order to reach this desired state
and then recent backwards from that so I
think it's a fairly natural it's not the
only possible cognitive system you could
build but it's also not these weird
bizarre special case that you know it's
a fairly natural thing to tame for if
you are able to specify the goal
something you want to achieve but you
don't know how to achieve it the natural
way of trying to go about that is by
building the system that has this goal
and is an agent and then moves around
and tries different things and
eventually perhaps learned to solve that
task
do you anticipate different types of
artificial intelligence like artificial
intelligence that mimics the human
emotions like these do you think that
people will construct something that's
very similar to us in a way that we can
interact with it in in common terms or
do you think it will be almost like
communicating with an alien so they're
different scenarios here
I mean I guess my guess is that the
first thing that actually achieved super
intelligence would not be very
human-like there are different possible
ways you could try to get to this level
of Technology what one would be by
trying to reverse-engineer the human
brain mmm we have an existence in in the
limit limit in case you might imagine if
you just made an exact duplicate in in
silicon of the human brain like every
neuron had some counterpart so that that
that seems technologically very
difficult to do but it wouldn't require
in a big theoretical breakthrough to do
it you could just through if you had
sufficiently good microscopy and large
enough computers and in us elbow grease
you couldn't kind of it but it seems to
me plausible that what will work before
we are able to do it that way will be
some more synthetic approach work that
would only be a very rough resemblance
maybe with the neocortex yeah that's one
of the big questions right whether or
not we can replicate all the functions
of the human brain in the way it
functions in in like mimic it exactly or
whether we could have some sort of
superior method that achieves the same
results that the human brain does in
terms of its ability to calculate and
reason and and do multiple tasks at the
same time yeah and I also think that
maybe once you have a sufficiently high
level of this general form of
intelligence then you could use that
maybe to emulate or mimic things that we
do differently so maybe we our cortex is
quite limited so we rely a lot on
earlier neurological structures that we
have we have to we have to be guided by
motion because we can't just calculate
everything out mmm and an instinct and
and it made me and if we lost all of
that we would be helpless but maybe some
system that had a sufficiently high
level of this more abstract reasoning
capability could maybe use that to
substitute for things that weren't
built-in in the same way that we did
have you ever talked to Sam Harris about
this yeah a little bit have you ever had
a podcast with him oh yeah it actually
he had him on in his podcast
half a year ago I'll have to have to
listen to it because he has the worst
view of the the future and
of artificial intelligence he's
terrified of it and when I talked to him
terrifies me and Elon Musk is right up
there he also has a terrifying view of
what our artificial intelligence could
potentially be what do you say to those
guys well I mean I I do think that that
are these significant risks that will be
associated with this transition to the
machine intelligence era including
existential risks threats to the very
survival of humanity or what we care
about so why are we doing this well
there are a lot of things we're we're
doing that may be global it would be
better if we didn't do I mean just why
do we build thousands of nuclear weapons
all right why do we over fish the ocean
yeah so no I mean if one actually asked
why do different individuals work on AI
research or why do different companies
and governments funded I mean there a
lot of explanation it's like a great
scientific endeavor if you can make the
Google search engine 1% better that's
got to be worth like a billion dollars
right off the bat it's become a kind of
prestige thing now where nations want to
have some sort of strategy because it's
seen as this new frontier just like when
you had you know steam engines and
industrialization a few hundred years
ago and an electricity like it's good to
just open up a lot of economic
opportunities you want to be in there
where it's happy you are a various kind
of we're going to do subsistence
agriculture while in the rest of the
world is moving on so there's there's a
lot of its kind of over determined like
you could remove some of these reasons
and that would still be enough reasons
for why people would be pushing forward
with this one of the things that scares
me the most is the idea that if we do
create artificial intelligence then it
will improve upon our design and create
far more sophisticated versions of
itself and it'll continue to do that
until it's unrecognizable until it
reaches literally a god-like potential
mmm that I mean I forget what the real
numbers were maybe you could tell us but
someone had calculated some reputable
source had calculated the amount of
improvement that sentient artificial
intelligence would be able to create
inside of a small window of time
like if it was allowed to innovate and
then make better versions of itself and
those better versions of itself were
allowed to innovate and make better
versions of itself you're talking with
not an exponential increase of
intelligence but an explosion well we
don't know so it's hard enough to
forecast the pace at which we will make
advances in AI because we just don't
know how hard the problems are that we
haven't yet solved right and you know
once you get the human level or a little
bit above I mean who knows it could be
that there is some level where to get
further you need like to put in a lot of
thinking time to kind of get there now
what is easier to estimate is if you
just look at the speed because that's
just a function of the hardware that
you're running it on right so so there
we know that there is a lot of room in
principle if you look at the physics of
computation and you look at what would
an optimally arranged physical system be
that was optimized for computation that
would be like way many many orders above
what what we can do now and that then
you could have arbitrarily large systems
like that
so from from that point of view we know
that that could be things that would be
like a million times faster than the
human brain and with a lot more memory
and stuff like that and then something
if it did have a million times more
power than the human brain it could
create something with a million times
more computational power than itself it
could make better versions it could
continue to innovate like if let me
create something that we can we say you
are I mean it is sentient it is
artificial intelligence now please go
innovate please go follow the same
directive and improve upon your design
yeah well but we don't know how how long
that would take then we'll get to
something we already have sort of
millions of times more thinking capacity
than a human has I mean we have millions
of humans right so if you kind of break
it down you think there's like one
milestone when you have maybe an AI that
could do what one human can do but then
that might still be quite a lot of
orders of magnitude you know until it
would be equivalent of the whole human
species
and maybe during that time other things
happened maybe we upgrade you know our
own abilities in some way so there are
some scenarios where it's so hard to get
even to one human baseline that we kind
of use this massive amount of resources
just to barely create kind of you know
villages yes
using billions of dollars of compute
right so if that's the way we get there
then I mean it might take quite a while
because you can't easily scale something
that you've already spent billions of
dollars building yeah some people think
the whole thing is blown out of
proportion that we're so far away from
creating artificial general intelligence
that resembles human beings that it's
all just vaporware mm-hmm what do you
say to those people well I mean what one
one would be that I would want to be
more precise about just how far away
does it have to be in order for us to be
rational to ignore it you know it might
be that if something is sufficiently
important and high-stakes that even if
it's not going to happen in the next 5
10 20 30 years it might still be wise
for you know our pool of seven billion
plus people to have some people actually
thinking about this ahead of time so
some of these disagreements I guess this
is my point or more apparent than real
like this some people say it's gonna
happen soon and some other people say no
it's not gonna happen for a long time
and then you know one person means by
soon five years and another person means
by a long time five years and you know
it's more of different attitudes rather
than different specific beliefs so so I
would first want to make sure that there
actually is a disagreement mmm now if
there is if somebody is very confident
that it's not gonna happen in hundreds
and hundreds of years then I guess I
would want to know their reasons for
that level of confidence what what's the
evidence they're looking at you know do
they have some ground for for being very
sure about this
certainly the history of Technology
prediction is not that great you can
find a lot of other examples where even
very eminent technologists and
scientists were culture it's not gonna
happen in our lifetime yeah in some
cases it that actually already just
happened in some other part of the world
or it happened a year later so I think
some some epistemic humility the way
these things would be wise I was
watching a talk that you were giving and
you were talking about the the growth of
innovation in technology and GDP over
the last 100 years and you were talking
about the entire history of life on
Earth and what a short period of time
humans have been here and then what a
enduring what a short period of time
what a stunning amount of innovation and
how much change we've enacted on the
earth and just a blink of an eye and you
had the scale of GDP over you know the
course over the last hundred years it's
it's crazy to look because it's so
difficult for us with our current
perspective just being a person living
going about the day-to-day life that
seems so normal to put it in perspective
timewise and see what an enormous amount
of change is taking place in relatively
an incredibly short amount of time yeah
I mean we think of this as sort of the
normal way for things to be the idea
that the alarm wakes up in the morning
and then you commute in and sit in front
of the computer all day and you try not
to eat too much and and that if you sort
of imagine that I don't know maybe in 50
years or 100 years or at some point in
the future could be very different
that's like some radical hypothesis but
of course this Cottam called normal
condition is a huge anomaly any any
which way you look at it I mean if you
look at it on geological time scale the
human species is very young if you look
at it historically you know for you know
more than 90%
we were just hunter-gatherers running
around and agriculture list for and the
what what would the last couple of
hundred years when some parts of the
world have escaped the Malthusian
condition where were you basically only
have as much income as you need to be
able to produce two children and we have
the population exploited like all of
this is very very very recent and in in
space as well of course almost
everything is ultra-high vacuum and and
we live on the surface of this little
special
from and yet we think this is normal and
everything else is weird but I think
that's a complete inversion and so when
you do plot if you do plot for example
world GDP which is a kind of rough
measure for the total amount of
productive capability that we have right
if you plot it over ten thousand years
what you see is just a flat line and
then a vertical line and you can't
really see any other structure like it's
it's so extreme that they agree to which
humanity's productive capital so is so
if I looked at this picture and we now
we imagine this is now the normal this
is the way it's going to be now
indefinitely it just Kansas means a
prima facie impossible like it certainly
doesn't look like we are in a static
period right now it looks like this is
we're in the middle of some kind of
explosion explosion and in oddly enough
everyone involved in the explosion
everyone that's innovating everyone is
creating all this new technology they're
all a part of this momentum that was
created before they were even born so it
does feel normal
they're just a part of this whole
spinning machine and they jump in
they're born they go to college next
thing you know they have a job and
they're contributing to making new
technology and then more people jump in
and add on to it and there's very little
perspective in terms of like the
historical significance of this
incredible explosion technologically
when you look at what you're talking
about that gigantic spike no one feels
it which is one of the weirdest things
about it that mean you kind of expect
every year that would be a better iPhone
yes not would be almost all of human
history people lived and died and so
absolutely no technological change and
in fact you could have many many
generations the very idea that there was
some trajectory in the material
conditions is a relatively new idea
I mean people thought of history either
as you know some kind of descent from a
golden age or some people had a cyclical
view but it was all in terms of
political organization that would be
kingdom and then a wise ruler would rule
for a while and then like a few hundred
years later you know their grand
great-grandchildren would be too greedy
and it would come into anarchy and then
you know a few hundred years later it
would come back together again yes
so so it would be all these kind of the
pieces moving around right but no new
pieces really entering or if they did it
was at such a slower rate that you
didn't notice but over the eons you know
they're the wheel slowly turns and you
know somebody makes a slightly better
wheel somebody figures out how to you
know irrigate a lot better they they
breed better crops and and eventually
there is an us that you could have
enough of a population in off prints
that then create more ideas at the
quickeneth rate that you get this
Industrial Revolution and and that's
where we are now like Elon Musk had the
most terrifying description of humanity
said that we are the biological
bootloader for artificial intelligence
mm-hmm so that's what we're here for
boots are important they are important
but I think there's like objectively and
there's personally like objectively if
you were outside of the human race and
you were looking at all these various
life-forms competing on this planet
first for resources and for survival you
would look at humanity and you go well
you know clearly that's not it's not
finished so there's gonna be another
version of it it's like when is this
version gonna take place is it gonna
take place over millions and millions of
years like it has historically when it
comes to biological organisms or is it
going to invent something that takes
over from there and then that's the new
thing some something that's not based on
tissue something that's not based on
cells and doesn't have the biological
limitations that we have nor nor does it
have all the emotional attachments
attachments to things like breeding
social dominance hierarchies all those
things where no consequence to it
doesn't mean anything because it's not
biological yeah yeah I mean IIIi don't
think millions of years have more number
of decades or whatever but but it's
interesting that even if we set that
aside we say
machine intelligence is possible for
some reason let's just play without then
I still think that would be very rapid
change including biological change and I
mean we are doing great advances making
great advances in biotech as well and
will increasingly be able to control
what our own organisms are doing through
different means and enhance human
capacities through biotechnology and so
so even there although it's not gonna
happen overnight but over an
historically very short period of time I
think it would still see quite profound
change just from applying bioscience to
change human capacities yeah one of the
technologies or one of the things that's
been discussed to sort of mitigate the
dangers of artificial intelligence is a
potential merge some sort of symbiotic
relationship with technology that you
you see you hear discussed like I don't
know exactly how Ilan's neural link
works but it seems like a step in that
direction there's some sort of a brain
implant that in that interacts with an
external device and this all of this
increases the bandwidth for available
intelligence and knowledge yeah I'm sort
of skeptical that that will work I mean
good that somebody tries it you know but
I think it's quite technically hard to
improve and normal healthy human beings
say cognitive capacity are the
capacities by implanting things in them
and get benefits that you couldn't
equally well get by having the gadget
outside of the body so I I don't need to
have an implant to be able to use Google
right right and there are a lot of
advantages to having it external you you
can upgrade it very easily you can shut
it off because well hopefully you could
do that even within Fanta and once you
start to look into the details there's
are these kind of demos but then if you
if you actually look at the papers often
you find well and then the way these
side effects and
today so they had some deficit and the
speech do you know like yeah infection
like it is just palate is messy yes so
maybe it will work better than done I
expect that that could be good but
otherwise I think that the the place
where it will first become possible to
enhance kind of human biological
capacities would be through genetic
selection which is technologically
something very near you mean what CRISPR
type lot so that would be editing right
when you actually go in and change
things that also is moving we don't mean
by selection also this would recipe in
the context of say in vitro
fertilization you have usually some
half-dozen or dozen embryos created
during this fertility procedure which is
standard ly used so rather than just the
doctor kind of looking at these embryos
and saying well that one looks healthier
I'm going to implant that you could run
some genetic tests and then use that as
a predictor and select the one you think
has the most desirable attributes and so
this could be a trend in terms of how
human beings reproduce that we instead
of just randomly having sex woman gets
pregnant gives birth to a child we don't
know what it's gonna be what its what's
gonna happen we just hope that it's a
good kid instead of that you start
looking at the all of various components
that we can measure yeah and so I mean
to some extent we already do this there
are a lot of testing done for various
chromosomal abnormalities that you can
already check for but but our ability to
to look beyond clear stark diseases that
is one gene is wrong like they look at
more complex trait this is increasing
rapidly so obviously there are a lot of
ethical issues and yeah but if I were
just talking what is technologically
feasible and I think that that I mean
already could do a very limited amount
of that today and maybe you'd get you
know two or three IQ points in
expectation more
if you selected using current technology
based on 10 embryos let us say so very
small but but as genomics gets better at
deciphering the genetic architecture of
complex traits whether its intelligence
or our personality attributes then then
you would have more selection power and
you could do more and then there is a
number of other technologies we don't
yet have but which if you did would then
kind of stack with that and enable much
more powerful forms of of enhancement so
so so there yeah I don't think there are
and any major technological hurdles
really in the way just some small amount
of incremental further improvement
that's when you talk about doing
something with genetics and human beings
and selecting selecting for the superior
versions and then if everybody starts
doing that the ethical concerns when you
start discussing that people get very
nervous because I started to look at
their own genetic defects and they go oh
my god what if I didn't make the cut
like I wouldn't be here and he started
thinking about all the imperfect people
that have actually contributed in some
pretty spectacular ways to what our
culture is and like well if everybody
has perfect genes with all these things
even take place like what are we doing
really if we're bypassing nature and
we're choosing to select for the traits
and the attributes that we find to be
the most positive and attractive like
what are like that I think what what
would happen if say some earlier age had
had this ability to kind of lock in
there yes you know that their prejudices
or if the Victorians had had issues we
would all be whatever pious and
patriotic now or something yeah yeah so
so so it in in general with all of these
powerful technologies we we are
developing that there is like I think
the ideal course would be that we would
first gain a bit more wisdom and then we
would get all of these powerful tools
but it looks like we are getting the
powerful tools before we have really
achieved a very high level of wisdom
yeah but we haven't earned them the
people that are using them are sort of
where we haven't like think about the
technology that all of us use how many
how many pieces of technology to use in
the day and how much do you actually
understand any of those most people have
very little understanding if I any of
the things they use work they put no
effort at all into creating those things
but yet they've inherited the
responsibility of the power that those
things possess yeah I mean that's the
only way we can do it it's just way too
complex for any person if you had to
sort of learn how to build everything
ever told you use like we wouldn't get
very far
isn't that fascinating though when you
think about human beings and all the
different things we do we have very
little understanding of the mechanisms
behind most of what we need for
day-to-day life yet we just use them
because there's so many of us and so
many people are understanding various
parts of all these different things that
together collectively we can utilize the
intelligence of all these millions of
people that have innovated and we with
no work whatsoever just go into the
Verizon store and pick up the new phone
yeah I mean and not just technology but
worldviews and political ideas as well
it's not as if most people sit down with
an empty table try to think from the
basic principles of what would be the
ideal configuration of the state or
something like that you just kind of
absorb it and go with it you float in
the stream of nature and and it's
amazing just how little of that actually
at any point channels through your sort
of conscious attention where you make
some rational otherwise but like
deliberate decision most you just get
carried away with so but but that that
again I mean if we have if this is what
we have to work with then there's no
other way you know otherwise I know it's
there's no other way and there's no way
even like you and I discussing this like
discussing the the history of this
incredible spike of evolution or
innovation rather in technology it feet
just doesn't feel like anything it feels
normal
so even though we can intellectualize it
even though we can have this
conversation talk about what an
incredible time work and how terrifying
it is the things are moving at such an
incredibly rapid rate and no one no
one's putting the brakes on it no one's
thinking about the the potential pros
and cons we're just pushing ahead yeah
well not nobody not no I mean there are
seeing people come to my research yes
there's actually increase I mean when I
I got interested in these things in the
90s and it was very much a fringe
activity there was some internet mailing
list some people exchanging ideas but
but ever since then I mean there's now a
small set of academic research
institutes and some other that are kind
of actually trying to do more systemic
thinking about some of these big picture
topics when did it seem like it was
possible like if you got involved in it
in the 90s it must have seemed like some
very fringe sort of pie in the sky idea
of an hour general artificial
intelligence as a retard specifically
about a yeah well actually the field of
artificial intelligence sometimes is
kind of dated to 1956 there was a
conference but I mean it's somewhat
normal sure but roughly that's when it
got started but the pioneers even right
back at the beginning thought that they
would gonna be able to do all the things
that the human brain does and in fact
they were quite optimistic like thought
maybe 10 years of something like that
back then yeah many of them really even
before computers no they had computers
you know 56 yeah what kind of computers
well as well yeah slow computers when
when was the computer invented well it's
one of those things I think during the
the Second World War they had computers
that were useful for doing stuff and
before that I had kind of tabulating
machines and before that I had designs
for things that if there had been put
together would have been able to
calculate a lot of numbers and then
before that they had an abacus bit kind
of there's a number of like that the
line from having some external tool like
a notepad which
you can you can calculate bigger numbers
right if you can scribble on a piece of
paper to a modern-day supercomputer like
you did that kind of you can break it
down into small steps and they happen
gradually but but yeah roughly since
they the the 40s or so that's when they
first invented I like an electrical yeah
yeah I think so
even back then they thought we were only
about 10 years away well some plows in
in the in the mid-50s when when people
started using the word artificial
intelligence some of these AI
researchers at a time where were quite
optimistic about the timelines in fact
there was some some some summer project
that we're gonna have a few students or
whatever and work over the summer and I
thought oh maybe we can solve vision
over the summer and now we've kind of
Sol edition but that's like 60 years
later so it can be hard to know how hard
the problem is until you've actually
solved it but the really interesting
thing to me is that even though I can
understand why they were wrong about how
difficult it is because how would you
know right if it's ten years of work or
100 years of work kind of hard to
estimate at the outset but what is
striking is that even the ones who
thought it was ten years away it they
didn't think of what the obvious next
step would be after that like if you
actually succeeded at mechanizing all
the functions of the human mind that
they couldn't it I think well it's
obviously not going to stop there once
you get human equivalents like you're
going to get super intelligence but it
was as if the imagination muscle had so
exhausted itself thinking of this
radical possibility you could have a
machine that does everything that the
human knows that it couldn't kind of
take the next step after that or or for
that matter the immense ethical and
social implications even if all you
could do is to replicate a human mind
like in a machine that if you actually
thought you were building that and you
were 10 years away you'd be crazy not to
spend like a lot of time thinking about
how this is going to impact the world
but that didn't really seem to have
occurred much to them at all well
sometimes it seems that people just want
to do it like even with the creation of
the atomic bomb I mean they they
felt like they had to do it because we
had to develop it before the Germans did
right but there was a specific reason
like you know suggest it could be fun to
do right sure
and so with the Manhattan Project
obviously it was during wartime and
maybe Hitler had a program they thought
so you can easily see why that yeah it
would motivate a lot of people but even
even before they actually started the
Manhattan product so the guy who kind of
first conceived of the idea that you
could make a nuclear explosion Leo
Szilard he was the was a kind of
eccentric physicist who conceived of the
idea of a chain reaction so it's been
known before that that you could split
the atom and a little bit of energy came
out but if you're going to split one
atom at a time right you're never gonna
get anything because it's too little so
the idea of a chain reaction was that if
you split an atom when it releases two
neutrons in each of those can split
another two atoms that then these four
neutrons and you get an exposure an
exponential blow-up and so he thought of
this I forget exactly one it must have
been in the third early thirties
probably and he was a remarkable person
because he didn't just think oh this is
a fun idea I should publish it and you
know get a lot of citations but he
thought like what would this mean for
the world like the idea this is this
could be bad for civilization and so he
then went to try to persuade some other
of his colleagues who were also working
in nuclear physics not not to pursue
this not to publish on related areas and
some partial success so there were some
partial success were his college some
some things were not published
immediately it's not known all of his
colleagues listened to him so of course
isn't that the problem was that some
people were always going to want to be
the ones that sort of innovate that is
the problem in those cases were you
would actually prefer the innovation not
to happen yes historically of course we
now look back and think there are a lot
of dissenters that we are now glad could
have their way because a lot of cultures
were quite resistant to innovation
and I wanted to do the way things had
always been whether it's like social
innovation or technological innovation
you know that the Chinese were at one
point ahead in seafaring exploring and
then they shot all of that down because
the the Emperor at the time I guess
didn't like it and so there are many
examples of kind of stasis but as long
as there were a lot of different places
a lot of different countries a lot of
different Mavericks then somebody would
always do it and then once the others
could see that it worked you know that
could kind of copy and things move
forward but of course if there is a
technology you actually want not to be
developed then this multipolar situation
makes it very very hard to coordinate to
refrain from doing that and yeah this
this I think is a kind of structural
problem in the current human condition
that is ultimately responsible for a lot
of the existential risks that we will
face in this century there's this kind
of failure of ability to solve global
coordination problems yeah and when you
think about the people that did in
Oppenheimer and the people behind the
Manhattan Project they were inventing
this to deal with this existential
threat this horrific threat from Nazi
Germany this the Japanese and of the
world war two you know this this idea
that this evil empire is going to try to
take over the world and this created the
momentum and this created the motivation
to develop this incredible technology
that wind up making a great amount of
our electricity and wound up creating
enough nuclear weapons to destroy the
entire world many times over and we're
in this strange state now or it was
motivated by this horrific moment in
history this evil empire that tries to
take over the world and we come up with
this incredible technological solution
the ultimate weapon that we detonate a
couple of times on some cities and then
now we're in this weird state where you
know we're how many years later of 80
years later and we were not doing it
anymore we don't drop any bombs on
people anymore but we all have them
and we all have them pointed at all well
yes which is a good thing quite a few
but it's incredible that the motivation
for this incredible technology this
amazing technology was actually to deal
with something that was awful yeah yeah
I mean war has been a like had a way of
focusing minds and stuff now I think
that nuclear energy we would have had
anyway maybe it would have been
developed like five years or ten years
later reactors are not that difficult to
do
so I think we could have gotten to all
the good uses of nuclear technology that
we have today without having to had kind
of a nuclear bomb developed now you pay
attention to like Boston Dynamics and
all these all these different robotic
creations that they've made well they
seem to have a penchant for doing the
relay sinister-looking
but I think all robots that are you know
anything that looks autonomous is kind
of sinister looking you see the Japan
yeah I mean like the Japanese have these
like big eyed sort of rounded so it's a
different China Turkish Boston Dynamics
is like I want the Pentagon to give them
funding or something right DARPA
yeah they'll they look like they're
developing terminators yeah yeah but but
what I was thinking is if we do
eventually come to a time where those
things are going to war for us instead
of us like if we get involved in robot
wars our robots versus their robots and
this becomes the next motivation for
increased technological innovation to
try to deal with superior robots by the
Soviet Union or by China like these
these are more things that could be
threats that could push people to some
crazy level of technological innovation
yeah it could I mean I think there are
other drivers for technological
innovation as well that that seems of
plenty strong
sure commercial drivers let to say that
we wouldn't have to rely on on war or
the threat of war it's a kind of stay
innovative
and I mean there has been this effort to
try to see if it would be possible to
have some kind of ban on lethal
autonomous weapons mmm just as I mean
there are huge technologies that we have
like there is has been a relatively
successful ban on chemical and
biological weapons and which have by and
large been you know honored and upheld
there there are kind of treaties on
nuclear weapons which has limited
proliferation yes there are no maybe I
don't know it doesn't I don't know the
exact number but it's certainly a lot
better than 50 or 100 countries yes and
some other weapons as well
blinding lasers landmines monster
munitions and so so so some people think
maybe we could do something like this
with lethal autonomous weapons killer
BOTS that you do we is that really what
humanity needs most now like another
arms race to develop like a killer bot
it seems arguably the answer to that is
no I've I've kind of there's a lot of my
friends are supported I kind of stayed a
little bit on the sidelines on that
particular campaign being a little
unsure exactly what it is that I mean
certainly I think it'd be better if we
refrain from having some arms race to
develop these they're not but if you
start to look in more detail what what
precisely is the thing that you're
hoping to ban so if the idea is the
autonomous bit like the robot should not
be able to make its own firing decision
well right if the alternative to that is
there is some 19 year old guy sitting in
some office building and his job is
whenever the screen flashes fire now he
has to press a red button mmm and then
exactly the same thing happens I mean
I'm not sure how much is gained by
having that extra step but it is
something it feels better for us for
sure
okay so I'm not pushing the button right
but exactly what does that mean like in
every particular fire decision or is it
like some well you've got to attack this
group of surface ships here and like
here are the general parameters and
you're
not to fire outside this these
coordinates like interstate I I don't
know I mean another is the question of
it would be better if I had no wars but
if there is going to be a war maybe it
is better if it's robot the robot or
horev if there's got to be bombing like
maybe you want the bombs to have high
precision rather than low precision like
get fewer civilian casualties and
operating under artificial intelligence
also depends exactly on her so I don't
know I mean on the other hand you could
imagine it kind of reduces the threshold
for going to war if you think that you
wouldn't fear any casualties maybe it
would be more than I eager to do it bro
or or or if it proliferates and you have
these kind of mosquito sized killer BOTS
that terrorists have and you know it's
not not doesn't seem like a good thing
to have a society we having like a
facial recognition thing and then the
bot flies out and you just have a kind
of dystopia so yeah I think we're
thinking rationally if you're thinking
rationally given the overall view of the
human race that we want peace and
everything to be well but realistically
if you were someone who is trying to
attack someone militarily you'd want the
best possible weapons it give you the
best possible advantage and that's why
we had to develop the atomic bomb first
it's probably why we'll develop the or
we'll try to develop the killer
autonomous robot first yeah yeah I mean
some guys would have it right the fair
that the other is yeah so this is what
it's basically a coordination problem
like it's hard for any one country
unilaterally to make sure that the world
is is peaceful and sure and kind right
it requires everybody to synchronize
their actions and and then then you can
have successes like we've had with some
of these treaties like we've not had a
big arms race in biological weapons or
in chemical weapons I mean they have
been that were there were cheaters even
on the biological warfare program like
the Soviet Union had massive efforts
there but still probably less use of
that and less development and if there
had been no such treaty so
and our just look at the amount of money
being wasted every year to maintain
these large Arsenal's so that we can
kill one another I wonder we decide to
do it like that there's gotta be a
better way yeah we're getting there it's
hard yeah we would hope that we would
get to some point where all this would
be irrelevant yeah because there's no
more war yeah and so if you look at the
the biggest efforts so far to make that
happen so after the First World War
people were really aware of that said
this this sucks like war I mean look at
this like a whole generation just ground
up
machine guns like this is gotta make
sure this never happens again so they
tried to do the League of nation but
then didn't really invest it with very
much power and then the second war
Second World War happened and then again
just after that it's fresh in people's
memories and well never again this is it
the United Nations and in Europe the
European Union it's kind of both
designed as ways to try to prevent this
but again with kind of maybe in the case
of the United Nations quite limited
powers to actually enforce the agreement
and there's a veto which makes it hardly
fits two of the major powers that are at
loggerheads so it might be that if that
were worth a third big conflagration
that then people would say well this
time you know we've got it really we got
to really put something kind of
institutional solution in place that has
enough enforcement power that we don't
try this yet again so we don't have a
second robot war so once we get to a
first robot I mean it kind of memories
fade right yes that's the problem so
even the Cold War I mean I grew up I'm
Swedish I remember we were kind of in
between right and and we were taught
these goals about and you could have
fallout and stuff like it's like a very
palpable sense that at any given point
in time that could be some
miscalculation or crisis or some
something and and like all the way up to
see senior statesmen at the time this is
this were like a very real and very
serious and I feel this up that memory
of just how bad it is to live in that
kind of hair trigger a nuclear arms race
called war situation has kind of
did and now we think maybe you know the
world didn't blow up so maybe it wasn't
so bad after all
well I think that would be the wrong
lesson to learn well it's a bit like
you're playing Russian roulette
yeah and you survived one and you say
well it isn't so dangerous at all to
play Russian roulette I think I'm gonna
have another girl like that you gotta
realize like well maybe that was the 10%
chance or a 30% chance that the world
would pop during the Cold War and we
were lucky but it doesn't mean we want
to have another one when I was in high
school it was a real threat when I was
in high school everyone was terrified
that we were gonna go to war with Russia
it was a big thing and and you talked to
people from my generation about that and
everybody remembers it remember that
feeling that you had in high school like
we there any at any day something can go
wrong and we could be at war with
another country that's a nuclear
superpower yeah but that's all gone now
like that that feeling that fear people
are so confident that that's not going
to happen that that's not even in
people's consciousness and then a number
of maneuvers are made and then you find
yourself in the kind of situation where
there is like honored stake and
reputation and you feel you can't back
down and then another thing happens and
you get into this place where if you
even say something kind about the other
side your seem to be like you know
you're a soft you're a pinky or a lion
on both sides in the other side as well
obviously they're gonna have the same
internal dynamic and each side's has bad
things about the other it makes the
other side hate them even more and these
things are then hard to reverse like
once you find this dynamic happening
it's it's kind of almost it's not too
late you can try it but but it can be
very hard to back out of that and so if
you can prevent yourself from going down
that path to begin with that that's much
preferable when you see Boston Dynamics
and you see those robots
is there something comparable that's
being developed either in the Soviet
Union or in China or somewhere else in
the world where there's similar type
robots well I think a lot of the Boston
dynamic things seems more showy than
actually useful there's kind of animal
like things that hop around and
mmm 150 decibel or something like if I
were special ops trying to sneak in like
I wouldn't want this kind of big alarm
but but I think a lot of action would be
more in terms of flying drones
maybe submarine stuff missiles that kind
of stuff but are you when when you see
these robots and you you you know see
like the the ones that look like dogs or
like insects and couldn't you imagine
those things being armed with with when
they are then they don't it doesn't
really look showy anymore it seems
pretty effective like you can't even
kick those things over yeah yeah well I
mean I think if it has a gun I mean it
doesn't really matter whether it looks
like a dog or if it's just a small
flying platform sure I mean in general I
think that the more with with AI and
robotics like the more the cooler
something looks usually technically the
less impressive it is as you see these
huge yeah I would say the extreme case
of this is these robots that look
exactly like a human like maybe like
shaped like a beautiful woman or
something like that and then there are
complete hype and nowak you know I was
at the movies obviously they do it
because they don't want to film in
movies but but every once in a while you
have some press release I forget what
the name is of this female looking robot
that got citizenship in Saudi Arabia
three years ago it's like a publicity
stunt but but the media just laps it up
Wow they've created is like it's exactly
like a human like what a big
breakthrough and and it's like nothing
do you anticipate like when you see ex
machina do you think that that's
something that could be realistically
that could be implemented in a hundred
years or so like we really could have
some form of artificial human that's
indistinguishable well I think the
action is not gonna lie in the the the
the robotic part so much as in the brain
part like I think it's the AI part and
robotics only insofar as it
becomes enabled by having say much
better learning algorithms study so
right now if you have a robot for the
most part in any one of these big
factories it's like a blind dumb thing
that executes a pre-programmed set of
motions over and over again mm-hm and if
you want to change off the production
you need to get in some engineers to
reprogram it right but with a human you
could kind of show them how to do
something once or twice and then they
can do it so it will be interesting to
see over the next few years whether we
can see some kind of progress in
robotics that enable this kind of
imitation learning to work well enough
that you could actually start doing it
in any kind of baby there are
demonstrations already but but robustly
not that that it would be useful and you
could replace a lot of these kind of
industrial robotics experts by having
this so yeah so I think I mean in terms
of making things look like human I think
that's more for for Hollywood and and
for press releases that and then the
actual driver of progress then more so
the actual driver of progress but
someone is going to probably try to
replicate a human being once the
technology becomes viable and one of the
more disturbing ex machina I have
probably all my Nonna's yeah I just it's
a little bit of a blur ease is I've seen
some of these and not others and this
guy lives in the very remote location
yeah like a beautiful place enormous
yeah yeah yeah created this beautiful
girl robot a seduces that man and at the
end of it she leaves him locked up in
this thing and it just takes off and
gets on the helicopter and flies away
and the thing that's disturbing is that
they it she knew how to manipulate his
emotions to achieve a desired result
which was him helping her escape yeah
and but then once she did she had no
real emotions so he's screaming and you
know she had no compassion and no
empathy she just hopped on the
helicopter and left and they're starved
to death inside that locked box and that
is what scares people this idea that
we're going to create something that's
intelligence it has intelligence but
like us but it doesn't have all the
things that we have like caring right
love
friendship compassion the need for other
human beings if you develop an
autonomous robot that's really
autonomous there's no need for other
people that's where we get weirded out
like it doesn't need us right yeah I
mean I think the same with all even if
it were not a robot but just a program
in inside lecture but but yeah yeah and
the idea that you could have something
that is strategic and deceptive and so
forth yes I mean but then other elements
of the movie of course and in general a
reason why it's bad to get your kind of
map of the future from from Hollywood
so if you think this is one guy
presumably some genius living out in the
nowhere and kind of inventing this whole
system work in reality yeah it's like
anything else a lot like hundreds of
people programming away on their
computers writing on whiteboards and
sharing ideas with other people across
the world it doesn't look like a human
and that would often be some economic
reason for doing it in the first place
like not just oh we have this Promethean
attitude that we want to kind of bring
and I like so so all of those things
don't make for such good plot lines so
they just get removed but then I wonder
if people actually think that is the
future in terms of some kind of
supervillain and some hero and it's
gonna come down to these two people and
they're gonna wrestle and yeah you know
and it's gonna be very personalized and
concrete and localized whereas a lot of
things that determine what happens in
the world are very spread out there are
no pure crises churning away and sure
yeah that was a big problem that a lot
of people had but the movie was the idea
that this one man could innovate at such
a high level and be so far beyond
everyone else is ridiculous that he's
just doing it by himself on this year
compound somewhere
come on yeah that's that but that makes
a great movie right yeah flying in the
helicopter drop you off a remote
location that shows you something he's
created that is gonna change the whole
world
and it looked beautiful I mean I could
imagine doing some writers you ever
tweet there or something well when the
iconic
image of aliens from another world is
this these little gray things with no
sexual organs and large heads and black
eyes this is the iconic thing that we
imagined when we think about things from
another planet I've often wondered if
what we think of with in terms of like
artificial life from another plant or
life from another planet is that it's
like an artificial creation like in our
ideas that we understand that the
biological limitations of the body when
it comes to traveling through space the
dealing with radiation death need for
food things along those lines that what
we would do is create some artificial
thing to travel for us like we've
already done on Mars right we had a
rover that roams around Mars the next
step would be an artificial autonomous
intelligent creature that has no
biological limitations like we do in
terms of like its ability to absorb
radiation from space and we create one
of those little guys just like that
would enormous head no sex organs
doesn't need sex organs you know and we
have this thing pilot these ships that
can defy our own physical limitations in
terms of what would happen to us if we
had to deal with you know 1 million
g-force because it's moving at some
preposterous rate through space like we
when we think of these things coming
from another planet if we think of life
on another planet if they can innovate
in a similar fashion the way we do we
would imagine they would create an
artificial creature to do all their
dirty work like why would they want to
like risk their body right yeah I mean
except I think creature might conjure up
stuff that I mean I okay the spaceship I
mean you don't have to have like build a
little thing that sits and turns the
steering wheel right I mean this could
be automated sure and you'd imagine a
technology that is spacefaring in a
serious way would have nanotechnology so
they have basically the ability to
arbitrarily configure matter in whatever
structure they want it out of like nano
scale right probes and things that could
shape-shift and it it's a
not be that that would be this person
sitting in a seat behind the steering
wheel like it would just if they wanted
to there could be invisible toss I'll
take like nano-scale things hiding in a
rock somewhere yes than just connecting
with an information link up to some
planetary sized computer somewhere far
away which would be doing that so yeah I
think that that's the way that space is
most likely to get colonized it's not
not going to be like with meat sacks
kind of driving spaceships around and
having Star Trek adventures it's gonna
be some spherical frontier emanating
from whatever the home planet was moving
at some significant fraction of the
speed of light and converting everything
in its path into infrastructure of
whatever type is maximally valuable for
that civilization maybe computers and
launchers to launch more of these space
probes so that the whole wavefront can
continue to propagate but we are I mean
one of the things you brought up earlier
is that if human beings are going to
continue and we're going to propagate
through the universe we're going to try
to go to other places we're going we're
going to try to populate other planets
and are we going to do that with just
robots or we're gonna try to do that
biologically we're probably going to try
to do it biologically and one of the
things you were saying earlier is one of
the things that artificial intelligence
could possibly do is accelerate our
ability to travel to other lands or the
plants I mean we gonna try I mean in
fact some people are right trying to buy
what I just think that's gonna not lead
to anything important until those
efforts becomes obsoleted by some
radical new technology wave probably
triggered by machine super intelligence
that then rapidly leads to something
approximating technology maturity once
once innovation happens at digital
timescales rather than human timescales
then all these things that you could
imagine we doing if I had 40,000 years
to work on it we would have space
colonies and cures for aging and yeah
all of these things right but if that
thinking time happens you know digital
space then that
future gets telescoped and i think you
fail to quickly reach a condition where
you have close to optimal technology and
then you can colonize the space
cost-effectively you just need to send
out one little probe that then can land
on some resource and set up a production
facility to make more probes and then it
spreads exponentially everywhere and
then if you want to you could then like
after that initial infrastructure has
happened you could transport biological
human beings you know the planets if you
want it to but it's not really where the
action is gonna be like but what if we
were concerned there's some sort of a
threat to the earth like some sort of
asteroid impact something coming that
stage of technology averting some
asteroid would be I think trivial really
it would be like a gift of free energy
like oh here comes an energy package
great that's a funny way to look at it
do you think we're gonna eventually
colonize Mars well I think the the the
answer is is this I think if and only if
we manage to get through these key
technological transitions and then I
think we will colonize not just Mars but
everything else that that is accessible
in the universe when you talk about
these things people always want to know
when anything's gonna happen what's the
time yes a mom my guess would be after
technological maturity like after super
intelligence now with Mars it's possible
that there would be like a little kind
of prototype colonization thing because
I like people it really excited about
that so if yeah so that you could
imagine some little demo project
happening sooner but if we're talking
about something say that would survive
long term even if the earth disappeared
like some kind of self-sustaining yeah
civilization I think that's gonna be
very difficult to do until you have
super intelligence and then it's gonna
be trivial so you think super
intelligence could potentially be what I
mean that one of the applications would
be to terraform Mars - yeah check out
the atmosphere to make it sustainable
for Biological life yeah you have the
second spot
yeah for example your vacation yes now I
also think that at this this is a very
radical context technology called
maturity because we're already maybe
there are additional technologies we
can't even think of yet but even just
what we already know about physics etc
we can sort of see possible technologies
that we don't yet or they were not yet
able to build but we can see that they
would be consistent with physics that
would be stable structures yeah and
already that creates a vast space of
things you could do and so for example I
think it would be possible at the
technological maturity to upload human
minds into two computers for example
yeah and so that you think that's gonna
happen like Ray Kurzweil stuff well I
think again it would be technically
possible at technical maturity to do it
mmm-hmm
now whether it's actually going to
happen then depends a do we reach
technological maturity and B do we are
we interested in using our technology
for that purpose at that time but if
both of those same kind of reasonably
possible
yeah reasonably possible in most of all
and especially in comparison what we've
already achieved if if I had a time
machine
and it could jump you 1,000 years from
now into the future would you do it
would you jump in I mean I think you
like the skies right now along yet
flight this kind of already in Mianus
what it was an instantaneous could I
come back no well I probably wouldn't I
don't know I mean I'm kind of a bit
cautious with these things but at least
at very least I'd want to think about it
for a long time before it'll be also I
have been attachments over there people
I care about here and projects and maybe
even opportunities to try to make some
difference if if we actually are in this
weird time right now different from all
of earlier human history were nothing
really much was happening and we're not
yet where it's all out of our hands and
it's super intelligence is running the
show well if that actually is if that's
true then that means we right now living
this very weird period where our actions
might have cosmological consequences if
we if we affect the precise time and way
in which the transitions in machine
superintelligence happens we would be
hugely influential and you know if you
have some ambition to try to do
something good in the world and that
kind of can be a very exciting prospect
as well like there might be no other
better time to exist if your goal is to
do good we might be in the golden years
for in in terms of ability to have to
take actions that have large
consequences also this very unique
transitionary period between the times
of old and the times of new like we're
really in the heat of the change in
terms of like we you know the internet
is only 20 plus years old phones are
only you know cell phones at least
people carrying them all the time it's
only 15 plus years old this is very very
new okay yeah so it's an exciting crazy
time where all these changes are taking
place really rapidly like if you were
from the future this might be the place
where you would travel to to experience
what it was like to see this immense
change take place almost instantaneously
like if you could go back in time to a
specific time in history and experience
what life was like to me I think I'd
probably pick ancient Egypt like during
the the days of the Pharaohs I would
love to see you get to choose who we are
just watch yes I'm watching just to see
what it looks like you know what it's
like to experience life back then but if
I was from the future were things what
what just a curious idea what do you
think it would look like like what what
do you imagine yourself seeing in this I
would imagine I would I mean I've really
thought long and hard about the
construction method the construction
methods of ancient Egypt I would love to
see what it looked like when they were
building the pyramids like how long did
it take what were they doing like how
did they do it we saw no it's all really
theoretical there's all these ideas of
how they constructed
with incredible precision and you know
precision in terms of the way it's
astronomically aligned to certain areas
of our solar system and different
constellations it's amazing I would love
to have seen how they did that and what
was the planning like and had they
implemented and how many people did it
take and how long did it take because we
really I don't know it's all speculation
dude think the burning of the Library of
Alexandria we lost so much information
and we've got you know hieroglyphs and
the physical structures that are still
daunting we have no idea we look at
those like we they look at the Great
Pyramid of Giza the the the huge one
with two million plus stones in it like
who made that how how'd you guys do it I
mean what what did you did you draw it
out first like well how did you get all
the rocks there like I mean I think that
would be probably the spot that I would
want to go to I would want to be there
in the middle of the construction of the
pyramids just to watch justice so that
certainly would be big like I guess
tourist destinations from for travelers
yeah in terms of if one is thinking I'm
just saying what was going on back then
we think the pyramids and that the slave
trains and dialogue but of course for
most Egyptians most of the time that
would be picking weeds from their field
or sure I think they're very to sleep
for just like stuff like that yeah so
the kind of the typical moment of human
existence they don't even think it's
slaves anymore I don't think I think
they think it's skilled labor but in
their diet based on the diet the
utensils that they found in these camps
his workers camps they think that these
were highly skilled craftspeople hmm
that it wasn't necessarily slaves they
used to think it was slaves but now
because of the bones of the food that
we're eating really well and they think
that well and also the the level of
sophistication involved this is not
something you just get kind of slaves to
do yeah this seems to be that there was
a population of structural engineers
that there was a population of skilled
construction people and that they tried
to you know utilize all of these great
minds that they had back then and put
this thing together but it's still in
history I think that's the spot that I
would go to because I think it would be
amazing to see so many different
innovative times I mean it would amaze
it be amazing to to be alive during the
time of Genghis Khan or you know to be
alive during some of the some of the
wars of thousand two thousand years ago
just to see what it was like on but the
pyramids would be the big one but I
think if I was in the future some weird
dystopian future where artificial
intelligence runs everything and and
human beings are you know linked to some
sort of neurological implant that
connects us all together and we long for
the days of biological independence and
we would like to see what was it like
when they first started inventing phones
what was it like when the internet was
first opened up for people what was it
like when people saw when when when
someone had someone like you on a
podcast and was talking about potential
artificial intelligence and where it
could lead us and what could the most
interesting time is now time yeah that's
what's cool about it to me is it we seem
to be in this this really Goldilocks
period of great change where we're still
human but we're worried about privacy
we're concerned our phones are listening
to us we're concerned about surveillance
dates and you know put people put
stickers over the laptop camera we see
it coming but it hasn't quite hit us yet
we're just seeing the problems that are
associated with this increased level of
technology in our lives which is yeah
that that is a strange thing if we add
up all these pieces
it doesn't fit doesn't is very really
special position yeah and you wonder hmm
it's a little bit too much of a
coincidence I mean it might be the case
but yeah it does put some strain on it
when you say a little too much of a
quail dance house so I mean I guess the
intuitive way of thinking about it like
what way like what what are the chances
that just by chance you would happen to
be living in the most interesting time
in history being like a celebrity like
whatever like well
that's pretty low prior probability
likely for me well from you are mean for
for it but for all of us really and so
that could just be I mean I if there's a
lottery somebody's gonna have the ticket
right yeah but more or yeah or or or we
are wrong about this whole picture and
there is some very different structure
in place that's which would make our
experience is more typical that's what I
was getting to yeah all right so I
gathered yeah
so how much have you considered the
possibility of a simulation well a lot I
mean I I developed the simulation
argument yes back in the early 2000 and
so yeah but I mean I know that you
developed this argument and I know that
you've spent a great deal of time
working on this but personally the way
you view the world how much how much how
much does it play into your vision of
what reality is well it's hard to say I
mean for the majority of my time I'm not
actively thinking about that I'm just
like you know living and now I have this
weird that my work is actually to think
about big-picture questions so it kind
of comes in through my work as well when
you're trying to make sense of our
position our possible future prospects
the levers which we might have available
to affect the world what what would be a
good and bad way of pulling those levers
then then you have to try to put all of
these constraints and considerations
together and in that context I think
it's important I think if you are just
going about your daily existence then it
might not really be very useful or
relevant to constantly like
to bring in hypotheses about the nature
of our reality stuff like that because
for most of the things you're doing on a
day to day basis like they work the same
whether it's inside a simulation or in
basement level physical reality like you
still need to get your car keys out you
still need it right so in some sense it
kind of factors out and is irrelevant
for many practical intents and purposes
what do you remember when you started to
contemplate the possibility of a
simulation no I I mean I remember when
when the simulation argument occurred to
me says which is less it's not just I
mean it's as far as long as I can
remember it like yeah I mean maybe
possibility like oh it could all be a
dream it could be a simulation but but
but that there is this specific argument
that that kind of narrows down the range
of possibilities and where the
simulation hypothesis is then one of
only three kind of options what are the
three options well one is that there is
almost all civilizations at our current
stage of technology development go
extinct before reaching technological
maturity that's like option one kind of
would be design technological maturity
well say having developed at least all
those technologies that we already have
good reason to think are physically
possible so that would include the
technology to build extremely large and
powerful computers on which you could
run detailed computer simulations of
conscious individuals so that that kind
of kind of would be a pessimistic height
like if that's if if almost all
civilizations is our stage failed to get
there that's bad news right because then
we'll fail as well almost certainly
that's one possible yeah so that's
option one option two is that there is a
very strong convergence among all
technologically mature civilizations in
that they all lose interest in creating
ancestor simulations or these kinds of
detailed computer simulations of
conscious people like their historical
predecessors or variations so maybe they
have all of these computers that could
do it but for whatever reason
they all decide not to do it maybe
there's an ethical imperative not to do
it or some other I mean we don't really
know much about these posthuman
creatures and what they want to do and
don't want to do so host human well I'd
imagine that by the time they have the
technology to do this yes they would
also have enhanced themselves in many
different ways right and so perhaps
enhancing their ability to recognize the
consequences yeah of creating yeah that
would almost certainly have cognitively
enhanced themselves for example well is
the concept of downloading consciousness
into a computer it almost ensures that
there's going to be some type of
simulation if you're if you have the
ability to download consciousness into a
computer once it's contained into this
computer when what it what is what's to
stop it from existing there as long as
there's power and as long as these chips
are firing and electricity is being
transferred data's being moved back and
forth you would essentially be in some
sort of a simulation well I mean if you
have the capability to do that also the
motive
it would have to simulate something that
resembles some sort of a biological
interface otherwise it's not going to
know what to do right yeah so so so we
have these kind of virtual reality
environments now that are imperfect but
improving yeah and you could kind of
mean imagine that they get better and
better and then you'll have a perfect
virtual reality environment but imagine
also that your brain instead of sitting
in a box with big headphones and some
glasses on like that the brain itself
also could be part of the simulation the
matrix well I think in the matrix there
are biological humans outside that plug
in right right but if you could include
in the simulation just as you have maybe
simulated coffee mugs and cars and
cetera you could have simulated brains
that if and and so it here is one
assumption coming in from outside the
simulation argument and one can talk
about it separately but it's the idea
that I call it's the substrate
independence thesis that you could in
principle have conscious experiences
implemented
on different substrate it doesn't have
to be carbon atoms as as is the case
with the human brain it could be silicon
atoms and that what creates conscious
experiences is some kind of structural
feature of the computation that is being
performed rather than the material that
is used to underpin it so in that case
you could have a simulation with
detailed simulations of brains in it
where maybe every neuron and synapse is
simulated and then those brains would be
conscious possibility number two well no
it's a possibility number two is that
these posthumous just are not at all
interested in doing it and not just that
some of them don't they would like of
all these civilizations that reach
technology maturity that is kind of
pretty uniformly just don't do that and
what's number three that we are in a
simulation the simulation hypothesis and
we're you lean well I I generally had to
punt on the question of precise
probabilities there I mean I think it
would be a probability thing right yes
it assigns some to each but yeah I've
refrained from giving a very precise
number part partly because I mean if I
said some particular number it would get
colder and it would create this maybe
sense of false precision mm-hm
the argument doesn't allow you to derive
this the probabilities XYZ it's just
that at least one of these three has to
obtain so yeah so that that narrows it
down
not because you might think you know
what do we know the future is big you
could just make up any story and we have
no evidence for but but it seems that
there actually if you start to think
everything through quite tight
constraints on what probabilistically
coherent views you could have and it's
kind of hard even to find one overall
hypothesis that fits this and and
various other considerations that that
we think we know the idea would be that
if there is one day the ability to
create a simulation that it would be
indiscernible from reality itself that
if like say if we are not in a
simulation yet if this is just
biological life we're just extremely
fortunate to be in this Goldilocks
period but we're working
on virtual reality in terms of like
oculus and all these companies are
creating these consumer based virtual
reality things that are getting better
and better and really kind of
interesting that you gotta imagine that
twenty years ago there was nothing like
that
twenty years from now it might be
indiscernible you might you might be
able to create a virtual reality that's
impossible to to discern from the
reality that we're currently experienced
or are maybe twenty thousand years at 20
million years like the the argument
makes no assumption at all about how
long real tech yeah but one day yeah if
things continue to improve computational
power the ability to replicate
experiences and even feedback in terms
of like biological feedback touch and
feel and smell if they figure out a way
to do that one day they will have an
artificial reality that's indiscernible
from reality itself and if that is the
case how do we know if we're in it right
that that is roughly the gist of it now
as I said I think if you simulate the
brain also you have a cheaper overall
system then if you have a biological
component in the center it was
surrounded by a virtual reality gear and
so you could for a given cost I think
create many more ancestor simulations
with simulated brains in the rather than
biological brains with VR gear so most
in indie snorers where there would be a
lot of simulations most of those nars
which would be the the kind of where
everything is digital because it's just
cheaper with mature technology to do it
that way this is one of the biggest for
lack of a better terms mind Fox when you
really stop and think about reality
itself that if we are living in a
simulation like what what is it and why
and where does it go
and how do I respond how do I move
forward if I really do believe this is a
simulation what am I doing here yeah
those are big questions huge questions
not some of them arise Eve
if we're not in a simulation yeah and
aren't there people that have done some
strange impossible understand
calculations that designed to determine
whether or not there's a likelihood of
us being involved in a simulation
currently yeah I I think it slightly
misses the point so the I think so there
are these attempt to try to figure out
the computational requirements that
would be required if you wanted to
simulate some physical system with
perfect precision so if we have some
human a brain a room let's say and we
want to dissimulate every little part
every atom every subatomic particle the
whole quantum wave function what would
be the computational load of that and
would it be possible to build a computer
powerful enough that you could actually
do this now I think the way that this
misses the point is that it's not
necessary to simulate all the details of
this environment that you want to create
in an ancestry simulation you would only
have to simulate it insofar as it is
perceptible to the observer inside the
simulation so if if some post human
civilization wanted to create a Joe
Rogan doing a podcast simulation that
need to simulate Joe Rogan's brain
because that's where the experiences
happen and then whatever parts of the
environment that you are able to
perceive so surface appearances may be
off the table and walls may be they
would need to simulate me as well or at
least a good enough simulacrum that I
could sort of spit out words that would
sound like they came from a real human
right I don't know now we're getting
quite good with this GPT to like this
kind of AI that just spews out words
with I don't know whether anyway so see
you that but but but like what what is
happening inside this table right now is
completely relevant you have no idea of
knowing whether they're even or atoms
Terra now you could take a big electron
microscope
and look at finer structure and then
then you could take an atomic force
microscope and you could see individual
atoms even and you could perform all
kinds of measurements and it might be
important that if you did that you
wouldn't see anything weird because
physicists do these experiments and they
don't see anything weird but then you
could kind of fill in those details like
if and when somebody were performing
those experiments that would be vastly
cheaper than continuously running all of
this and so this is the way a lot of
computer games are designed today that
they have a certain rendering distance
like you only like actually simulate the
virtual world when when the character
goes close enough that you could see and
so I might in these kind of super
intelligent post-humans during this
obviously that would have figured that
out and a lot of other optimizations so
these in other words these calculations
are experiments I think don't really
tell on the hypothesis without assigning
a probability to either one of those
three scenarios what makes you think
when you if you do stop and think I
think we're in simulation what what are
the things that are convincing to you
well it would mainly go through the the
simulation argument that if it had
extended I think the alternative two
hypotheses are improbable then that
would kind of shift the probability mass
on the third remaining is it really only
three so the Intel the ones are we that
human beings go extinct well and other
civilizations at our stage in the cosmos
or whatever yes hey this is strong yeah
strong filter that they either go
extinct or they decide not to pursue all
this interest yeah or it becomes a
simulation this is that really the only
think the only three live options now so
you can IIIi can kind of unfold the
argument a little bit more and look more
granular so suppose that the first two
options are false
so some non-trivial fraction of
civilizations at our stage do get
through and some non-trivial fraction of
those are still interested then I think
you can convincingly show that by using
just a small portion of the resources
they could create
very many simulations and you can show
that or argue for that by comparing the
computational power of systems that we
know are physically possible to build we
can't currently build them but we could
see that you could build them with
nanotech and if you have planetary sized
you know resources on the one hand and
on the other hand estimates of how much
compute power it would take to simulate
a human brain and you find that a mature
civilization would have many many orders
of magnitude more so that even if they
just used one percent of their compute
power of one planet for one minute they
could still run you know thousands and
thousands and thousands of these
simulations and and they might have
billions of planets and they might last
for billions of here so so the numbers
are quite extreme it seems so then then
what you get is this implication that if
the first two options are false it would
follow that there would be many many
more simulated experiences of our kind
and that would be original experiences
of our account so the idea is that if we
continue to innovate if human beings or
intelligent life in the cosmos continues
to innovate that creating a simulation
is almost inevitable no no I mean the
second might be that we decide not and
others with the same capability but what
if they don't decide not to what if they
don't decide to not to if we the first
option if human beings do figure out a
way to not die and stay stay innovative
and we don't have any sort of natural
disasters or man-made created disasters
then step two if we don't we don't
decide to not pursue this if we continue
to pursue all various forms of
technological innovation including
simulations that it becomes inevitable
if we get past those two first options
it becomes inevitable that we pursue it
well so if they have the capacity then
they will do it and the motive
desire to yeah so that then they would
they create hugely many of these so not
just one simulation right but because
it's so cheap at the technological
maturity if you have a cosmic Empire of
resources it it doesn't have to have a
very big desire to do this they might
just think well you know well that was
the big question that Ilan said he would
ask artificial intelligence said what's
beyond the simulation okay that's the
real question if this is a simulation if
there's many many simulations running
currently what's beyond the simulation
well yeah you might be curious about
that I mean I think the more important
question would be like what do we all
things considered have the most recent
to do in our situation like what would
it be wise for us to do is that like
some way that we can be helpful or have
the best life or whatever is ridiculous
to even consider maybe it's beyond us
what the question of what is outside yes
well I mean I don't think it's
ridiculous to consider I think it might
be beyond us but maybe we would be able
to form some abstract conception of what
it is I mean in fact if if we if there
is the path to believing the simulation
hypothesis is the simulation argument
and I mean we have a bunch of structure
there that gives us some idea like that
would be some advanced civilization that
they would have developed a lot of
technology over time including computer
technology ability to do virtual reality
very well we'd imagine probably they
would have used that technology for a
whole host of other purposes as well you
wouldn't just get that technology and
you know not be able to create a train
or something like I said okay they'd
probably be super intelligence and have
the ability to colonize the universe and
do a whole host of other things and then
for one reason or another they would
have decided to use some of the
resources to create simulations and
inside one of those simulations perhaps
our experiences would be taking place
saw in uniquely you could more
speculatively fill in more
but but I still think that fundamentally
our ability to crack this whole thing
would be very limited and there might be
other considerations that we are
oblivious to that would I mean if you
think about the simulation argument is
it quite recent right so it's like it's
only it's less than 20 years old sorry
if you think that suppose it's correct
for the sake of argument then up to this
point everybody was missing something
like hugely important and fundamental
yeah right very smart people hundreds of
years like just looked like this this
massive piece right in the center but
what's the chances that we now have
figured out the last big missing piece
presumably that must be some father big
giant realization that is like beyond
those currently so I think having some
yeah I mean that that looks kind of
possible but maybe there are further big
discoveries or revelations that that
would kind of maybe not falsify the
simulation but maybe change the
interpretation like do something that is
hard to know in advance what that would
be now is the concept that if there is a
simulation that all the historical
record is simulated as well well or when
did it take in well this is their
different options there right and there
might be many different simulations that
configure differently that could be once
that run for a very long time once that
run for a short period of time once that
simulate everything and everybody others
that just focus on some particular scene
or person you could like just a vast
space of possibilities there and which
ones of those would be most likely it's
really hard to save much about because
it would depend on the reasons for
creating these simulations like what
would the interests of these
hypothetical post-humans be
have you ever had a conversation with a
pragmatic capable person who really
understands what you're saying and but
they disagree about the even the
possibility of a simulation and it must
have occurred but it doesn't tend to be
the place where the conversation usually
goes the conversation usually go
I mean III mean I move in kind of
unrepresentative circles so I think
amongst the folk I interact with a lot I
think a common reaction is that it's
possible and still there is some
uncertainty because these things are
always hard to figure out but we should
assign it some probability but I'm not
saying that would be the typical
reaction if you kind of did a Gallup
survey or something like that
I mean another common thing is I guess
too
miss interpreted in some way or another
and there are different versions of that
so one would be this idea that in order
for the simulation hypothesis to be true
it has to be possible to simulate
everything around us to perfect
microscopic detail which we discussed
earlier right then some people might not
immediately get this idea that the brain
itself could be part of the simulation
so they imagined it would be plugged in
with like a big cable and if you just
somehow could reach behind you and like
that would be so that that would be
another possible common misconception I
guess then I think common thing is to
conflate this simulation hypothesis with
the simulation argument that the
simulation hypothesis is we are in a
simulation the argument is that one of
these three options is true only one of
which is the simulation hypothesis so
like some conflation there happens how
do you factor dreams into the simulation
hypothesis well I think they are
irrelevant to it that is that whether or
not we are in a simulation people
presumably would still have dreams and
other reasons and explanations for what
that's what happened so our aims even if
you're in the simulation why not so some
people so I sometimes get these kind of
random email from coders that like
that's like oh well you know yes thank
you us from our theories very
interesting and I found proof and like
hall when I looked in my bathroom mirror
I saw pixels like the random things like
there is people varying degrees I mean
maybe we're all crazy
but yeah but I think that those things
are not evidence in generally speaking
you would expect if we're not in a
simulation there still to be various
people who claim to perceive various
things sometimes people have a loose
nation sometimes to misremember
sometimes to make stuff up like you just
imagine
would be so the most likely explanation
for those things is not even even if you
are in a simulation the most likely
explanation for those thing is not that
it was a glitch in the simulation is
that one of these normal psychological
phenomenon took place right so yeah I
would not be inclined to think that this
would be an explanation if somebody has
those kind of experiences it's probably
not because we are innocent even if the
simulation hypothesis is true it's
probably not the explanation the concept
of creativity how does that play into a
simulation if you're if during the
simulation you're coming up with these
unique creative thoughts are these
unique creative thoughts your own or
these unique creative thoughts
stimulated by the simulation and I think
they could that would be our own in the
sense that it would be our brain that
was producing them something else would
have produced your brain but obviously
there's some incredible influences on
your brain if you're involved in some
sort of an external stimulation that's
true in physical reality as well sure so
it's like not know but it's still your
brain I think it would be as much
potentially as much your own in the
simulation as it would be outside the
simulation I mean unless the simulators
had for whatever reason set it up with
the view that they for some reason they
just wanted to have all this is wrong
and coming up with this particular idea
and I've kind of configured the initial
conditions and just the right way to
achieve that maybe then when you come up
with it maybe it's less your achievement
than the people who set up the initial
conditions but other than that I think
kind of be similar in because the reason
I asked that is all ideas but everything
that gets created all innovation
initially comes from some sort of a
point of someone figuring something out
or coming up with a creative idea all of
it like everything they see in the
external world like everything from
televisions to automobiles was an idea
and then somebody implemented that idea
or groups of people implemented the
technology involved in that idea and
then eventually it came to fruition if
you're in a simulation how much of that
is being
externally introduced into your
consciousness by the simulation and is
it pushing inhalation in a certain jury
I don't know I mean you could imagine
both kinds of simulations like
simulations where you just set up the
initial conditions and let it run to see
what happens right and others where
maybe you want to just simulate this / -
you like this particular historical
counterfactual like what would have
happened like if Napoleon had been
defeated like maybe that's our
simulation but in some specific thing
there you could imagine either or both
of those types of ways of doing it but
your simulation hypothesis we if we're
in it it's running now is it running and
we independently interact with the
simulation or is the simulation
introducing ideas into our minds that
then come to fruition inside the
simulation is that how things get done
like if we are in a simulation right and
if during the simulation someone has
created a new iPhone like why are they
doing that if other other people in the
simulation or is this simulation
entirely unique to the individual is
each individual involved in a different
coexisting simulation right so they the
I think the the kind of simulation that
it would be clearest the clearest case
for why that would be possible would be
one where all people would be simulated
that you proceed and for each brain yeah
that is it because then you could get
the realistic behavior out of the brain
if you simulated a whole brain at the
sufficient level of detail so everyone
you interact with is also acceleration
well that that type of simulation should
certainly be possible then it's more of
an open question whether it would also
be possible to create simulations where
there was say only one person conscious
and the others were just like simulacra
yeah I like that I like the
acted like humans but there's nothing
inside right so these would be in
philosopher's parlance zombies that is
like a technical term but it means in in
one philosophers discuss it's somebody
who acts exactly like a human but with
no conscious experience now whether
those things are possible or not is an
open and question do you consider that
every when you're communicating with
people they ever stop denying like this
every day I mean as a card to me but not
not not regular I don't know yeah does
it that but if it does it ever get your
head were you like this might not be
real like this person might not be a
real person this might be a simulation
right I mean I guess there two things to
be says one is that you'd probably have
some probability distribution over all
these different kinds of situations that
you could be in maybe all of those
situations are simulated in different
frequencies and stuff different numbers
of times that is so there would be some
probability distribution there that
would be the first thought that in
reality are always kind of uncertain the
second would be that even if you were in
that kind of simulation it might still
be that behaviorally what you should do
is exactly the same as if you were in
the other simulation so it might not
have that much day-to-day implications
do you think there's psychological
benefits for interacting with life as if
it's a simulation from no I don't think
that would be an advantage I mean maybe
maybe this in some case re what an
alleviation of existential a maybe but
who knows if it could also I guess if if
you sort of interpreted in the wrong way
maybe lead you to feel more alienated or
something like that I don't know but I
think to a first approximation the same
things that would be work well and make
a lot of sense to do in in physical
reality would be also our best bets in a
simulated reality that's where it gets
really weird
like if it's a simulation but you must
behave in each and every instance as if
it's not if you know if you were given a
you like if you had a test you could
take like a pregnancy test when you went
to the CVS and you know you you pee on a
strip I tells you guess what Nick this
shit isn't real you're in a simulation a
hundred percent proven absolutely
positive you know from now on from this
moment on that everything you interact
with is some sort of a creation it's not
real but it is real because you're
having the same exact experience as if
it was real why you proceed um yeah I I
think that might be very subtle
reprioritization that that would happen
what would you do but personally well I
I don't know the full answer to that I
think there are certain possibilities
that look kind of far-fetched if we are
not in the simulation that become like
more realistic if we are like I mean so
so what one obvious one it's like if in
simulation could be shut off like if the
computer where the simulation is running
is if the plug is pong right right and
so we think physical universe has been
normal and I said it can't just suddenly
pop out of existence there's a
conservation of energy and momentum and
so forth but a simulated universe that
that seems like something that could
happen it doesn't mean it is likely to
happen or it doesn't say anything about
what time frame but at least these like
interests as a possibility where it was
not there before other things as well
become more maybe similar to various
theological possibilities that like
afterlife and stuff like that and in
fact it kind of maybe through a very
different path leads to some similar
destinations as as as people through
thinking about theology and stuff have
arrived at in that that would mean it's
kind of different I think there is no
logically necessary connection you
but there are some kind of structural
parallels analogs between the situation
of a simulated creature - there you know
simulators and and I created entity to
their crater that that are interesting
although kind of different so so that
might be kind of comparisons there that
you could make that would give you some
like possible ways of proceeding it
seems like paralysis by analysis so you
just sit there and think about it like
at least I would yeah I would almost
wind up not being able to do anything or
not being able to act or move or think
wow that that seems kind of likely to be
suboptimal right sub-optimal for sure
yeah so yeah but it's uh the the concept
is so prevalent and it's so common and
it's interesting how much it has just
over the last yeah 10 15 years how long
the idea has what's this like really
radical thing when it started and I know
you have all these kind of figures that
kind of almost like in on Poisson just
kind of yeah throws it off and yeah I I
it's interesting how ideas can migrate
from some kind of extreme radical fringe
and some like decade or two later
they're just kind of almost common sense
nothing that is well we have a great
ability to get used to things I mean
this comes back to our discussion about
the pace of technological progress it
seems like the normal way for things to
be we are very adaptable creatures right
you can adjust to almost everything and
we have no kind of external reference
point really and mostly these judgments
are based on what we think other people
think so if it looks like if some high
status individual Elon Musk or whatever
talk seems to take the simulation
argument seriously then people think
it's a sensible idea and it only takes
like one or two or three of those like
people that that that are highly
regarded and suddenly it becomes
normalized is there any one highly
regarded that openly dismisses as
possibility that must be but I'm not
sure they would
bothered to go on the record
specifically like I guess the people who
are dismissive of it wouldn't maybe even
bother to address it there was something
um trying to think yeah and I'm drawing
a blank of whether there's a specific
particular person I could I would love
to hear the argument against yeah I
would love to see here's someone like
you or Elon interact with them mm-hmm
and try to like you know volley back in
for I these ideas yeah that could be
interesting yeah you see you've never
had like some sort of a debate with
someone openly dismisses well like a big
public debate I don't know even private
yeah I don't know I mean I've it was
kind of a long time since I when I first
put this article out I I guess I had
more conversations about the argument
itself what was the reaction when you
first put it out there's a lot of
attention right I mean pretty much right
off the bat including public it I mean
it was published in some academic
journal philosophical quarterly but yeah
it quickly drew a lot of a ton and then
it's kind of come in waves like every
other every year or so this tip should
be like some new group of something you
either a new generation or some new
community that hears about it for the
first time and it kind of gets a new
wave of attention but in parallel to
these waves there's also this is chronic
trend towards it's becoming more part of
the mainstream conversation and seeming
kind of less far out there yeah and I
think yeah that may be partly just if
the idea make like maybe if there were
some big flaw in the idea it would have
been discovered by now so if it's been
around for a while it makes it a little
bit more credible it might also be
slightly assisted by just technical
progress if you see virtual reality
getting better and stuff it becomes
maybe easier to imagine how it could
become so good one day that yeah it's
great perfectly flawless that was good I
was gonna introduce that as option for
is option for the possibility that one
day we could conceivably create
some sort of an amazing simulation but
it hasn't been done yet and this is why
it's become this topic of conversation
is that there's some need for concern
because you extrapolate technology and
you think about where it's going now and
where it's headed there could
conceivably be one day where this exists
should we consider this and deal with it
now well so I'd say that that would be
highly unlikely in that if the third say
if the first two are wrong right then
there are many many more simulated ones
than non simulated ones will be over the
course of all of history over the course
of our history but without has but so
then the question is given that you know
that by the end of time that will have
been let's say just a million
simulations and one original history
sure and that all of these simulated
people and the original history people
all have subjectively indistinguishable
experiences you can't from the inside
tell the difference right then what
given that the assumption would it be
rational for you to believe should you
think you're one of the exceptional ones
or should you think you're one you know
amongst the the larger set the simulated
ones or should you think that it just
has not happened yet just but that would
be equivalent to saying that you would
be one of the non simulated ones you're
talking about in the universe in yeah
even just you could look at the narrower
case of just the earth let's just look
in the narrow case it was the earth yeah
in the narrow case of just the earth if
the historical record is accurate if
it's not a simulation then it seems very
reasonable that we're just dealing with
incremental increases in technology
that's pretty stunning and pretty pretty
profound currently but that we haven't
experienced a simulation yet is now
that's how it looks right sure yeah but
that's also how it would look if you
were in a simulation yes but it's also
how would look if you're not in this
simulation yeah that's also a
possibility to know right yeah
but for most people who for whom it
looks like that it would be the case
that they would be simulated why
well by assumption if if there are all
these simulations created well not yet
well right why do you don't know what
time you don't know what time it is in
external right so why we assumed
something so unbelievably fantastic when
just life itself is preposterous
there's life itself just being a human
being on a planet you know this planet
spending a thousand miles an hour
Earling through infinity that in itself
is fairly preposterous if it didn't
exist but it does exist and we know that
we at least we're all agreeing upon a
certain historical record we're agreeing
upon Oppenheimer the Manhattan Project
world war one world war two we're
agreeing on Korea and Vietnam we're
agreeing on Reagan and Kennedy we're
agreeing on all these things
historically if we are all agreeing that
there's this sort of historical process
we were all agreeing I remember when the
first iPhone was invented I remember
when the first computer I remember when
this I remember the internet why would
we assume that there's a simulation we
could assume that there's a possibility
of a simulation but why would you assume
the simulation hasn't occurred
why wouldn't we assume the simulation
hasn't occurred yet right I mean say it
it is a possibility that we would be in
the first time second yes of all of
these like it's not any more likely if
we'd well I'd say no I mean we so it
comes down then to this field which is
tricky or problematic called anthropic
so this is about how to assign
probabilities in situations where you
have uncertainty about who you are what
time it is where you are so if you
Madden for example all of these people
who would exist in this scenario having
to place bets on whether they are
simulated or not and you think about two
possible different ways of reasoning
about this so one is you assume you're a
randomly selected individual from all
these individuals and you bet
accordingly
we're normally so well didn't yeah so
then you would bet you're one of the
simulated ones because like a randomly
selected ones if most are simulated
most lottery tickets are why are we
assuming that most are simulated this
where I'm getting confused well because
if we eliminated by the end of time by
the end of this is like a Titleist why
already when it hasn't existed yet like
well I'm I'm like let's say for the sake
of argument because I don't really have
an opinion on this you pro or con I'm
open the air but if I was gonna argue
about pragmatic reality the the the
practicality of biological existence as
a person that has a finite lifespan
you're born you die you're here right
now and we're a part of this just long
line of humanity that's created all
these incredible things it's led up to
civilization that's led up to this
moment right now where you and I are
talking into these microphones and it's
being broadcasted everywhere why isn't
it likely that a simulation hasn't
occurred yet that we are in the process
of innovating and one day could
potentially experience the simulation
but why are you not factoring in the
possibility or the probability that that
hasn't taken place yet yeah I mean so
it's in there but if you imagine that
people has followed this general
principle of assuming that they would be
the ones in the original history before
the simulations had happened right then
almost all of them would turn out to be
wrong
and they would lose their bets once a
simulation has action right I mean if
you look if you kind of integrate over
you know the unit but there's no
evidence that the simulation is taking
place but there is evidence that you're
alive I don't have a mother you have a
well I mean those those things could be
true in the simulation as well I mean it
could be but doesn't that pipedream
simulation right I mean say a lot of
simulations might run for a long time
and have a mattress yeah yeah but we
know that if someone shoots you you'll
die we know if you eat food you get full
we know these things mm-hmm these things
could be objective facts these kidnaped
I think they're TRAI yes all right
now why would we assume why why would a
simulation be the most likely scenario
when we've experienced at least we
believe we've experienced all this
innovation in our lifetime we see
moving towards a certain direction why
wouldn't we assume that that hasn't
taken place yet yeah I think to try to
argue for the premise that conditional
on there being first an initial segment
of non simulated Joe Rogan experiences
and then a lot of other segments of
simulated ones yes that conditional on
that being the way the world in totality
looks you should think you're one of the
simulated ones why well to argue for
that I think then you need to roll in
this piece of probability theory called
an tropics which I alluded to and yes
just to pull one little element out of
there to kind of create some initial
possibility for this if you think in
terms of rational betting strategies for
this population of Joe Rogan experiences
the ones that would lead to the overall
maximal amount of winning would be if
you all thought you're probably one of
the simulated segments if you had the
general reasoning rule that in this kind
of situation you should think that
you're the initial segment of non
simulated Rogan then the great
preponderance of these simulated
experiences would lose their bets but
there's no evidence of a simulation well
I'd say that there is indirect evidence
insofar as there is evidence against
these two alternatives the what the two
alternatives being that they do
universal life goes extinct before they
create any sort of simulation or that
they agree to not I'll create a
simulation but what about if they're
gonna create a simulation there has to
be a time before the simulation is
created why wouldn't you assume that
that time is now currently happening
when you've got a historical record of
all the innovation that's leading up to
today if we understand I think the
historical record would be there in the
simulation but there but why would it
have to be there in a simulation and not
be there in reality well I mean it could
be there in the simulation if it's a
kind of simulation the original yeah if
it's a fantasy simulation then you know
maybe it wouldn't be there right but it
could
be reality it doesn't have to be a sign
I mean sometimes it would be both right
I mean that would be one Joe Rogan
experience in the real original history
and then like maybe a million that I say
in simulated realities later but if you
think about your actions that kind of
can't distinguish between these
different possible locations in
space-time where you could be most of
the impact of your decisions will come
from impacting all of these
million-dollar organ instances but this
simulation has been proven to exist
which it hasn't been we we have at least
in terms of what we all agree we're
proven to have biological lives we breed
we sleep we eat we travel on planes all
these things are those things are true
yeah I mean I'd say those are are true
probably even if I are in a simulation
right but why would you assume we're in
a simulate this is where I'm doc yeah
because why wouldn't you assume that a
simulation is one day possible there's
no proof or no evidence that makes any
sense to me that there is currently any
simulation right I mean it's a matter of
probabilities and the numbers games
right is it uh that's okay reality yeah
but what would point to the possibility
that it's more probable that we were in
a simulation this is what escapes me
okay so I could mention some
possibilities that we know it says so
the most obvious like in mind a big
window pops up in front of you saying
you're in the simulation more inclusive
right yes right so short of that you
would have weaker probabilistic evidence
insofar as you had evidence against the
two alternatives so for example if you
if you got some evidence that suggested
it was less likely that all
civilizations at our stage go extinct
before maturity let's say we get our act
together we eliminate nuclear weapons we
you know we become prudent and we check
all the asteroids nothing is some
collision course with our study that
kind of tend to lower the probability of
the first right okay
so that we tend to shift probability
over on the remaining alternatives let's
suppose that we moved closer ourselves
to becoming posthuman we develop more
advanced computers and VR and like we're
getting close to this point ourselves
and we still remain really interested in
running ancestor simulations we think
this is what we really want to spend our
resources on as soon as we can make it
work
that that would move probability over
from the second alternative like it's
less likely that there is this strong
convergence among all post human
technology mature civilizations if we
ourselves are almost posthuman and we
still have this interest in creating
ancestor simulations so that which have
probability over to the remaining
alternative take the extreme case of
this like imagine if we you know a
thousand years from now have built our
own planetary size computer that can run
these simulations and we are just about
to switch it on and it will create the
simulation of precisely people like
ourselves and as we move towards the big
button to sort of initiate this like
then the probability of the first two
hypotheses basically goes to zero and
then we would have to conclude with near
certainty that we are ourselves in a
simulation as we push this button to
create a million simulations once we
achieve that state but we have now
achieved that stage why would we not
assume that we are in the actual state
that we currently experience well we
shouldn't assume which we should assume
that we are ignorant as to which of
these different time slices we are which
of these different
rogon experiences is the present one we
just can't tell from the inside which
one it is yeah I mean if if you had if
you could see like some objective clock
and and say that well as as yet the
clock is so early that no simulations
have happened and obviously you could
conclude that you're in the original
history but if we can't see that clock
outside the window if there is no window
in this simulation to look out then it
would look the same and then I'd say we
have no way of telling which of the
different instances we are and one of
them might be that there is no
simulation and that we're moving towards
that simulation that one day might be
technically a one in a million
not really so one in a million is that
life is what experience right now
one in numeric conditional on the other
those other alternatives being wrong
let's let's let's say that human beings
haven't blown themselves up yet let's
say that human beings haven't come up
with the there is no need to make the
decision to not activate the simulation
because the simulation hasn't been
invented yet isn't that also a
possibility is it also a possibility
that the actual timeline of
technological innovation that we all
agree on is real and that we're
experiencing this as real live human
beings not in a simulation that one day
the simulation could potentially take
place but has not yet isn't that also a
possibility yeah yeah let me sure it's
just a question of how probable that is
given the why isn't it super probable
because we're experiencing it well I
mean it would be a very unusual
situation for somebody with your
experiences to be in what about your
experiences for my expressively the same
same there yeah it would be extremely
unusual but there's your seven billion
unusual expression taneous lee but i
would you see me think there were like
say a million simulations right then you
know that would be a million times more
but why would there be any simulations
why would there not just be 7 billion
people experiencing life right yeah that
mean then that would have to be
something that prevents these
simulations from furthering create this
is where you lose me yeah so I think
maybe the difference is I tend to think
in terms of the world as a four
dimensional structure with time being
one dimension right okay I'm sorry just
so you think in the totality of
existence that will have happened by the
end of time you look at all the
different experiences that match your
current experience okay given these
various assumptions the vast majority of
those would be simulated
why well the various assumptions being
that option one and two are false basic
what about option my option yeah so that
in your option the vast majority of all
these experiences that will ever have
existed will also be simulated if I
understand your no no my option is that
nothing's happened yet yeah but they
will have been maybe but not yet right
but it's all I understand your option is
that if you look at the universe at the
end of time and we'll look back that
would be a lot of simulated versions of
you and then one already know long
that's a think you might be the original
one no I'm not even considering that
what I'm saying is we may just be here
that there is no simulation and that
maybe it will take place but maybe it
will not right but you have to pick
which of those versions you are which of
those scenarios you are considering that
is the there is the scenario I'm
considering the scenario I'm considering
is we are just here we are actually a
lot
what happens after like so I want this
in order to say what happened in the
past what happens now and what will
happen in the future well we don't
always going to happen in the future
right that's that's right so we can
consider both options right yes
one option where there are no
simulations created later right then I
would say that means one of the first
two alternatives but another option is
there could be a simulation created
later but it has not taken place that
there will be simulation is later is
that it's a possibility but it has not
happened right but that there will be
later that's that's one possibility and
so then I say if that's the world that
we are looking at then most experiences
of your kind exist inside the simulation
I still don't understand that why can it
not have happened yet well it could
depends on which of these experiences is
your present moment in that scenario
right so that there's going to be a
million of them plus an initial one you
can tell from
maybe there will be a million of them
but there's right now no evidence that
there's going to be no evidence that
there is no evidence that it's ever even
going to be possible technologically we
think there could be but it hasn't
happened yet so why would you assume
that we are in a simulation currently
when there's no evidence whatsoever that
it's even possible to create a
simulation maybe there is some
alternative way of trying to explain I
understand I'm taking like suppose I'm
sorry
I'm just thinking maybe we could think
of some simpler thought experiment which
has nothing to do with simulations and
stuff but imagine if I'm making this up
as I go along so we'll see if it
actually works but you are taking into a
room and then you're awake there for one
hour and then a coin is tossed and if it
lands heads then the experiment ends and
you exit the room and everything is
normal again but if it lands tails then
you're given an amnesia drug and then
you're walking up in the room again you
think you're there for the first time
because you don't remember having been
there before right and then this is
repeated ten times so we have a world
where either there is one one hour
experience of you in the room or else
it's a world with ten jorgen experiences
in the room we do not be sort of amnesia
in-between right but when you're in the
room now you find yourself in this room
you're wondering hmm is this the first
time I'm in this room it could be but it
could also be that later on and I was
just given an amnesiac okay so the
question now is when you wake up in this
room you have to assign probabilities to
these different places you could be in
time and maybe have to bet or or make
some decision that depends on where you
are
so what I guess I could ask you like so
if you wake up in this room what what
what do you think the probability should
be that the coin that you're like at
time one versus at some later time well
what is the probability that I'm
actually here versus what is the
probability that's highly unlikely
scenario that I keep getting drugged
over and over again every hour we
assumed that like in you're certain that
that the setup is such that there was
this mad scientist who had the means to
do this and he was gonna flip this coin
right so we assuming that that's you're
sure about that either way the only
thing you're unsure about is how the
coin landed okay well if that was a
scenario where I knew that there was a
possibility of a mad scientist and I
could wake up over and over again that
seems like a recipe for insanity well
it's a philosophical thought experiment
it's a way we can abstract away from my
ability and I'll get back to is there's
no evidence at all that we're in a
simulation so why wouldn't we assume
that the most likely scenario is taking
place which is we are just existing and
life is as it seems strange so okay so
if if you don't want to do this thought
experiment so incredibly limited distill
right the probability theory apart from
the wider simulation but I guess I could
also ask you if if we were to move
closer to this point where we ourselves
can create simulations if we survive we
become a multiplanetary we would build
planetary sized computers yeah how would
your probability in this simulation
hypothesis change as we kind of develop
it well will change based on the
evidence of some profound technological
innovation that actually we would allow
someone to create a simulation it's
indistinguishable from reality but I
would rather assume that reality itself
currently is just that because it seems
to be isn't that Occam's razor isn't
that the simplest answer this is reality
this is wood you are here you absolutely
here one day there may be a simulation
it has not happened yet yeah I think
it's not that comes Razer in that it
would require you to postulate that you
are this very unusual and special
observer amongst all the observers that
will exist but why is that but everyone
is unusual in their own way that's true
but there's no there's no clones there's
no one person that's a version that's
living the same exact life in a million
different scenarios but but in this
respect if there are all these
simulations then most of these people
are not special in this way that most of
them are simulated and only adulation
right have many simulations well if
there's no simulation well then of seven
if there are no simulations and there
will ever be any simulations done well
who saying there never will be
well so this since since we don't know
what time it is now in external reality
right and we therefore can't tell from
looking at our evidence where we are in
in a world where either there is just an
original history and then it ends or
there is a world with an original
history and then a lot of simulations we
need to think about how to assign
probabilities given each of these two
scenarios right and so then we have a
situation that is somewhat analogous to
this one with the amnesia room where you
have sort of some number of episodes and
so the question is in those types of
situations how do you allocate
probability over the different
hypotheses about how the world is
structured and this kind of betting
argument is one type of argument that
you can try to reduce to kind of get
some grip on that and another is by
looking at various applications in in in
in cosmology and stuff where you have
multiverse theories and which say the
universe is very big maybe there are
many other universes maybe there are a
lot of observers maybe all possible
observers exist out there in different
configuration how how do you drive
probabilistic prediction
from that like it seems like whatever
you observe would be observed by
somebody so how could you test that kind
of theory and this same kind of entropic
reasoning that I want to use in the
context of the simulation argument also
plays a role I think in deriving
observational predictions from these
kinds of cosmological theories where you
need to assume something like you are
most likely a typical observer from
amongst the observers that will ever
have existed or so I would suggest now
III should admit as an asterisk that
this field of anthropic reasoning is
tricky and not fully settled yet and
there are things there that we don't yet
fully understand but still the
particular application of anthropic
reasoning that is relevant for the
simulation argument I think is one of
the relatively less problematic ones so
that conditional on there being by the
end of time a large number of simulated
Kerr organs and only one original one I
think conditional and that hypothesis it
would seem that most of your probability
should be on being one of the simulated
ones but I'm not sure I have any other
ways of know I can understand what
you're saying
I completely understand what you're
saying but I don't know why you're not
willing to take into account the
possibility that it hasn't occurred yet
yes I mean the way I see it is that I
have taken that into account and it
receives the same probability that I'm
that initial segment as I would give to
any of the other nick bostrom segments
that all have the same evidence see
that's where we differ because I would
give much more probability to the fact
that we are existing right now in the
current state as we experience it in
real life Carbon life no simulation but
that potentially one day there could be
a simulation which leads us to look at
the possibilities and look at the
probabilities that it's already occurred
all right so what about this suppose it
is the case that all right so what we
think happen is
was a big bang planets formed and then
some billions of year later we evolves
and here we are now right suppose some
physicists told you that well the
universe is very big and early on in the
universe very very rare occasions there
was a big gas cloud in an infinite
universe this will happen somewhere
right where just by chance there was a
kind of Joe Rogan's like brain coming
together for a minute and then dissolved
in the gas right and yeah if you haven't
even it universe it's gotta happen
somewhere it's but there's gonna be many
many fewer your organ brains in such
situations then will exist later on on
planets because evolution helps funnel
probability into these kinds of
organized structures right so if some
physicist told you that well this this
is the structure of our part space-time
like there are like a few very very rare
spontaneously materialized brains from
gas clouds early in the universe and
then there are the normal Rogen's is
much later and and of course many many
more normal ones the normal ones happen
in one out of every you know 10 ^ 50
plants whereas the weird ones happen in
1 out of 10 to the power normal vs.
weird how so how are you well the normal
ones are ones that have evolved on
planets and had the mother and different
beans in different planets ok I only
have one planet okay well I mean
actually there are a lot of planets in
the universe and that's gonna be a lot
of territory that has life right these
are this is this is pure speculation but
this is a thought experiment in fact
actually probably is much as relative
espect most likely there's some other
planets out there well dude I think the
fact that it matches relatives
I think irrelevant to the point I want
to make but so if this turn out to be
the way the world works a few weird ones
happening from gas clouds and then the
vast majority are just normal people
living on a planet would you similarly
say given that model that you should
think it might just as well be one of
these gas cloud ones because after all
it the other ones might not have
and yet what have I lost you you lost me
sorry yeah anyway I think that this
would be a structurally similar
situation where there would be a few
exceptional early living versions that
that would be very small in numbers
compared to the later ones and if they
allow themselves the same kind of
reasoning where they would say well the
other ones may or may not come to exist
later on planets I have no reason to
believe I'm one of the planet living
ones then it seems that in this model of
the universe you should think you know
one of these early gas cloud ones and as
I as I said I mean this looks like it
probably actually is the the world we're
living in in that it looks like it's
infinitely big and that would have been
a few do Rogen's spontaneously generated
very early from random processes they're
going to be very few numbers compared to
ones that have you know recent on
planets so that by taking the path you
want to take with relation to the
simulation argument I wonder if you
would not then be committed to thinking
that you would be like in in fact that
Boltzmann brain in in a gas cloud super
early in the universe I still don't
understand what you're saying what I'm
saying is that we scientists agree if
you believe in science and if you
believe in the discoveries that so far
people have all currently agreed to
we've agreed that clouds are formed and
that planets are created and that all
the matter comes from inside of the
explosions of a star and that it takes
multiple times for this to coalesce
before we can develop carbon-based life
forms all that stuff with science to
currently agrees on right and then we
believe in single celled organisms
become multi-celled organisms through
random mutation and natural selection we
get evolution and that we agree that we
have come to a point now where
technology has hit this gigantic spike
that you described earlier so human
beings have created all this new
innovation
why wouldn't we assume that all this is
actually too
taking place right now with no
simulation yeah I mean the simulation
argument is this the the answer to that
but with the qualification that a the
simulation argument doesn't even purport
to prove the simulation hypothesis
because there's Charles relatives mm-hmm
be that even if the simulation
hypothesis is true in many versions of
it it would actually be the case that in
the simulation all of these things have
taken place and the simulation might go
back a long time and it might be a
reality tracking simulation
maybe these same things also happened
before outside the simulation
I understand but or all these things
have actually happened and there is no
simulation yet mmm yeah that's possible
too there's nothing really probable well
I think I mean to me it seems probable
only if at least one of the other
alternatives is true or I mean I I admit
that there is also this general
possibility which is always there that
I'm confused about some big thing like
of avala maybe the simulation argument
is wrong in some way like I'm just
looking at the track record of science
and philosophy we find where sometimes
wrong so I attach some probability to
that but but if we were working within
the parameters of what currently seems
to me to be the case that we would be
the first civilization in a universe
where there will later be many many
simulations seems yeah unlikely for
those exact reasons and that if we are
the first it's probably because one of
the alternatives is true so it's a
mind-blower neck the more you sit and
think about the more you ponder these
concepts and I'm you know I'm not on one
side or the other it's scary but it's
also amazing and what else is too that
we haven't figured out yet if if we come
back in 50 years even just with human
beings thinking about stuff
and I think I have this concept of a
crucial consideration I alluded it a
little bit earlier but it's um the idea
of some some argument or data or insight
that if only we got it would radically
change our mind about our overall scheme
of priorities not just change the
precise way in which we go about
something but kind of totally reorient
ourselves like an example would be if
you are an atheist and you have some big
conversion experience and some of your
life feels very different right you had
what we're doing before you were
basically wasting your time and now you
found what it's all about
but that could be sort of slightly
smaller versions of this and I wonder
what the chances are that we have
discovered all crucial considerations
now because it looks like at least up
until very recently we hadn't in that
there are these important considerations
that seems to whether it's AI like if
this stuff about AI is true like maybe
that's the one most important thing that
we should be focusing on and the rest is
kind of frittering away our time as a
civilization we should be focused on AI
alignment so we can see that it looks
like all earlier ages up until very
recently were oblivious to at least one
crucial consideration in the forest I
wanted to have maximum positive impact
on the world that just didn't know what
the thing was to focus on and it also
seems kind of unlikely that we just now
have found the last one if that just
seems kind of get given that we keep
discovering these up until quite
recently we're probably missing out on
on one or more likely several more
crucial considerations and if that's the
case then it means that we are
fundamentally in the dark you know we
were basically clueless in we might try
to improve the world but we are
overlooking maybe several factors each
one of which would make us totally
change our mind about how to go about
this and so it's less of a problem I
think if your goal is just to lead your
normal life and be happy
a happy family and you know because that
there we have a lot more evidence and it
doesn't seem to keep changing every few
years like we still know I have good
relationships you know don't ruin your
body don't jump in front of trains like
these are yeah it's tried and tested yes
right but if your goal is to somehow
steer humanity's future in such a way
that you maximize expected utility there
it seems our best guesses
keep jumping around every few years and
and we haven't kind of settled down into
some stable conception of that they're
gonna have to process conversation for a
long time but I appreciate it and thank
you for being here man no that's really
good too very fascinating yeah yeah
thank you thank you very much kid if
people would like to read into your
stuff working where can they get it
Nick Bostrom become probably the best
starting point okay
thank you my brain is broken by
everybody
[Music]
[Applause]